Swatantra Yadav
Contact
swatantra_y@hotmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/swatantra
yadav-5362681 (LinkedIn)
Top Skills
NumPy
Python (Programming Language)
.NET Framework
Languages
English
Certifications
CIS534 Decision Trees and Model
Selection
MCPS: Microsoft Certified
Professional
CIS 533 - Learning with Linear
Classifiers
CIS537: Deep Learning and Neural
Networks
Google IT Support Certificate
Senior Software Engineer @ Microsoft | Architecting Microservices
for Security
Redmond, Washington, United States
Summary
I specialize in architecting and implementing microservices that
handle tens of billions of calls daily. My work focuses on precision,
performance, and security within high-scale environments, backed
by certifications including several courses in ML from Cornell
University.  
At Microsoft, I designed a service that saves $5M+ annually and led
the development of scalable infrastructures across 21 Azure regions.
With expertise in microservices, software infrastructure, and security,
I am dedicated to delivering impactful and innovative solutions that
meet complex challenges.
Experience
Microsoft
Senior Software Engineer
May 2020 - Present (5 years 10 months)
United States
At Microsoft, I’ve spent the last five years architecting and designing
microservices that protect millions of customers and handle tens of billions
of calls every day. I thrive in high-scale environments where precision,
performance, and security are non-negotiable.
Highlights:-  Cost Savings: Designed and built a service that saves $5M annually—
impacting both infrastructure efficiency and operational cost.-  Global Deployment: Architected the infrastructure deployment module that
enabled our organization to scale services across 21 Azure regions in under a
year.-  Security & Scale: Led backend development for systems that play a critical
role in safeguarding customer data at massive scale.
 Page 1 of 3
  
SkyKick
Software Development Engineer
December 2015 - April 2020 (4 years 5 months)
Seattle, Washington, United States
• Designed and developed cloud-based services for seamless mail migration to
Microsoft Office 365.  
• Researched and integrated IoT features to enhance product capabilities.  
• Investigated and resolved complex issues related to COM-based Message
API during Outlook profile migration.  
• Utilized technologies such as Azure, C#, and SQL Server to deliver robust
solutions.
Translational Software
Software Development Engineer
October 2014 - August 2015 (11 months)
Mercer Island
• Developed end-to-end cloud-based SaaS solutions that transformed
pharmacogenetic test results into actionable clinical reports.
Microsoft
8 years 6 months
Software Development Engineer in Test-2 (Service Fabric team)
September 2012 - September 2014 (2 years 1 month)
Redmond, Washington, US
• Contributed to the core team developing the Service Fabric product, a
competitor to Kubernetes.  
• Built a fully automated test framework that bootstrapped Service Fabric
across 500+ VMs.  
• Conducted rigorous testing, collecting metrics, logs, and process dumps to
identify actionable bugs.
Development Lead
April 2006 - August 2012 (6 years 5 months)
• Led a team of developers at Microsoft, overseeing multiple projects and
ensuring timely quarterly releases.  
• Managed people through hiring, technical design, and code reviews, fostering
a collaborative environment.  
• Developed strong technical skills while enhancing team productivity and
project delivery efficiency.
 Page 2 of 3
  
Computer Sciences Corporation
Senior Software Engineer
April 2005 - March 2006 (1 year)
Java based development for Sun Microsystems.
Oracle
Senior Member Technical Staff
March 2004 - March 2005 (1 year 1 month)
Banglore, India
As a part of Oracle BPEL Process Manager product development team
designed and implemented a highly appreciated UI wizard that detects file
formats and suggests appropriate converted XML formats and also generates
XSD.
Camilion Solutions, An SAP Company
Software Developer
February 2001 - February 2004 (3 years 1 month)
Worked for 3 years on development of a customizable workflow software
application for Property and Causality Insurance business. Primary
responsibilities were coding using Java / J2EE (JSP, EJB, JMS, Weblogic).
Beta Systems AG, Calgary, Canada
Intermediate Software Developer
August 1999 - January 2001 (1 year 6 months)
Using Visual C++ developed Namespace Extensions and Shell Extensions
to extend Windows Explorer. Extensively used Win 32 API, COM interfaces.
Database information was displayed in Windows Explorer.
Education
Cornell University
Certficate Program, Machine learning · (July 2024)
University of Calgary
MS, Computer Integrated Manufacturing · (1996 - 1998)
Motilal Nehru National Institute Of Technology
B.Engg., Mechanical Engineering · (1992 - 1996)